---
title: 'What is Feedback?'
media_order: ''
hero:
    image: 
header_bar:
    background: auto
    text: auto
---

# Purposes of Feedback

Assessment and feedback are inseparable, and they are both deeply intertwined with the work of learning. Assessment is the process of interpreting performance data generated by learners' work in light of learning outcomes. Feedback is the process of communicating the interpretation to learners **so they are able to improve their performance in some way**. Feedback must include information about how well the learner performed in relation to the outcome **and** what the learner needs to do to close the gap between their performance and the intended outcome.

## Giving Feedback in Online Courses

We often think of creating a feedback form or grading rubric simply to help with the marking process.  Remember that these can be great tools to share with students **before** they start working on the assignment.

A detailed grading rubric, for example, can help students with the following:

1. *Understand the assignment:* Rubrics can help explain an assessment by detailing exactly what you’re looking for and how you will assess their work.  
1. *Focus on the goals:* Explain how the assessment in intended to demonstrate their understanding of specific learning outcomes.  
1. *Plan their time and effort:* By seeing the weight of categories on the rubric, they can prioritize their presentation of their learning (e.g. reflection part of the paper is worth 20%, whereas analysis is worth 30%).  

## Types of Feedback

Consider the various ways to assess (tests, papers, projects, presentations, graphics, etc.) and how the grading criteria and feedback may differ.  Below we'll highlight some common and effective ways to give students feedback.

Here is a quick snapshot:

! ✅ A checklist is an assessment tool that is used to grade students based on the presence or absence of knowledge, behaviours, and skills. Checklists itemize the tasks you want students to do.  
! ✅ An analytic rubric is a way to break down specific parts of your assignment. It provides a scale of performance for you to measure your students’ achievement. This is a more detailed approach to grading and provides a clear picture of your expectations for an assignment.  
! ✅ A holistic rubric is simpler than an analytic rubric. Generally, it has 3 – 5 levels of performance (score) and a description that defines how students will achieve the grade for each level. Holistic rubrics look at the entire assignment and grades it on a single scale.  
! ✅ Audio feedback allows you to record your verbal comments on students work.  
! ✅ Video feedback can include screen capture so you can explain your comments visually.  